README.md, before:

# 3mm — Мултифункционална платформа с FastAPI и Vue 3

Проектът **3mm** има за цел да бъде модулна система, която позволява лесно добавяне на функционалности като блог, онлайн магазин, домашна автоматизация и индустриален мониторинг чрез динамични добавки (extensions).

## 🛠 Стек

- **Backend:** FastAPI + Pydantic + SQLite
- **Frontend:** Vue 3 + Vite + TailwindCSS
- **UI Framework:** TailwindCSS (преди Bootstrap)
- **Системни модули:** 
  - User Manager (с роли)
  - Settings мениджър
  - Dynamic Menu Editor
  - Extension Generator (в разработка)

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- **Python 3.8 or higher** (check with `python --version` or `python3 --version`)
  - On Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt update && sudo apt install python3 python3-venv python3-pip`
  - On macOS: Install from python.org or use Homebrew: `brew install python`
  - On Windows: Download from python.org (ensure "Add Python to PATH" during installation)
- **Node.js 20 or higher** (check with `node --version`)
  - Download from nodejs.org or use package manager
  - Update npm if needed: `npm install -g npm@latest`
- **npm 10 or higher** (check with `npm --version`)
  - Comes with Node.js 20+, or update with the command above

### Troubleshooting Python Virtual Environment

If you encounter errors like "cannot execute: required file not found" when activating venv or running pip:

1. Ensure Python 3.8+ is installed: `python3 --version`
2. On Linux systems, install the venv module: `sudo apt install python3-venv` (Ubuntu/Debian)
3. Try recreating the virtual environment: `rm -rf backend/venv && python3 -m venv backend/venv`
4. If `python3` doesn't work, try `python` (but ensure it's Python 3)

## 📦 Installation

### Backend Setup

1. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

2. Create a virtual environment:
   - On Linux/Mac:
     ```bash
     python3 -m venv venv
     ```
   - On Windows:
     ```bash
     python -m venv venv
     ```

3. Activate the virtual environment:
   - On Linux/Mac:
     ```bash
     source venv/bin/activate
     ```
   - On Windows:
     ```bash
     venv\Scripts\activate
     ```

4. Install Python dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. (Optional) Deactivate the virtual environment when done:
   ```bash
   deactivate
   ```

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. Install Node.js dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

## 🚀 Running the Application

### Backend

From the project root directory:

```bash
# Activate virtual environment if not already active
source backend/venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
# or
venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows

# Start the FastAPI server
uvicorn backend.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8887
```

### Frontend

From the project root directory:

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The frontend will typically run on `http://localhost:5173` (Vite default).

### Running Both

Open two terminal windows/tabs:

1. Terminal 1: Run the backend as above
2. Terminal 2: Run the frontend as above

The application should now be accessible at the frontend URL, communicating with the backend API.

## 🛠 Alternative Backend Start

You can also use the provided script (Linux/Mac only):
```bash
./start_backend.sh
```

Commit message:

Fix user count display and server errors on security page
- Fixed import errors in role_routes.py and group_routes.py
- Added /roles/{id}/count and /groups/{id}/count endpoints
- Replaced problematic SQLAlchemy queries with robust raw SQL
- Updated Security.vue to display actual user counts instead of always 0
- Added real-time count updates when users are added/removed
- Fixed 500 Internal Server Errors when loading role/group users

README.md, after:

# 3mm — Мултифункционална платформа с FastAPI и Vue 3

Проектът **3mm** има за цел да бъде модулна система, която позволява лесно добавяне на функционалности като блог, онлайн магазин, домашна автоматизация и индустриален мониторинг чрез динамични добавки (extensions).

## 🛠 Стек

- **Backend:** FastAPI + Pydantic + SQLite
- **Frontend:** Vue 3 + Vite + TailwindCSS
- **UI Framework:** TailwindCSS (преди Bootstrap)
- **Системни модули:** 
  - User Manager (с роли)
  - Settings мениджър
  - Dynamic Menu Editor
  - Extension Generator (в разработка)

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before installing, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

- **Python 3.8 or higher** (check with `python --version` or `python3 --version`)
  - On Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt update && sudo apt install python3 python3-venv python3-pip`
  - On macOS: Install from python.org or use Homebrew: `brew install python`
  - On Windows: Download from python.org (ensure "Add Python to PATH" during installation)
- **Node.js 20 or higher** (check with `node --version`)
  - Download from nodejs.org or use package manager
  - Update npm if needed: `npm install -g npm@latest`
- **npm 10 or higher** (check with `npm --version`)
  - Comes with Node.js 20+, or update with the command above

### Troubleshooting Python Virtual Environment

If you encounter errors like "cannot execute: required file not found" when activating venv or running pip:

1. Ensure Python 3.8+ is installed: `python3 --version`
2. On Linux systems, install the venv module: `sudo apt install python3-venv` (Ubuntu/Debian)
3. Try recreating the virtual environment: `rm -rf backend/venv && python3 -m venv backend/venv`
4. If `python3` doesn't work, try `python` (but ensure it's Python 3)

## 📦 Installation

### Backend Setup

1. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```bash
   cd backend
   ```

2. Create a virtual environment:
   - On Linux/Mac:
     ```bash
     python3 -m venv venv
     ```
   - On Windows:
     ```bash
     python -m venv venv
     ```

3. Activate the virtual environment:
   - On Linux/Mac:
     ```bash
     source venv/bin/activate
     ```
   - On Windows:
     ```bash
     venv\Scripts\activate
     ```

4. Install Python dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

5. Initialize the database (creates admin user and initial data):
   ```bash
   python backend/scripts/init_database.py
   ```

6. (Optional) Deactivate the virtual environment when done:
   ```bash
   deactivate
   ```

### Frontend Setup

1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
   ```bash
   cd frontend
   ```

2. Install Node.js dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

## 🚀 Running the Application

### Backend

From the project root directory:

```bash
# Activate virtual environment if not already active
source backend/venv/bin/activate  # Linux/Mac
# or
venv\Scripts\activate  # Windows

# Start the FastAPI server
uvicorn backend.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8887
```

### Frontend

From the project root directory:

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The frontend will typically run on `http://localhost:5173` (Vite default) and is configured to connect to the backend at `http://localhost:8887`.

**Note:** The frontend's API base URL is set in `frontend/.env`. For local development, it should point to `http://localhost:8887`. If you need to connect to a different backend (e.g., production), update the `VITE_API_BASE_URL` variable in that file.

### Running Both

Open two terminal windows/tabs:

1. Terminal 1: Run the backend as above
2. Terminal 2: Run the frontend as above

The application should now be accessible at the frontend URL, communicating with the backend API.

## 🛠 Alternative Backend Start

You can also use the provided script (Linux/Mac only):
```bash
./start_backend.sh
```
